In this lecture we will learn about several properties that CSSA gives us to style outlines.
An outline is completely outside of an element and doesn't contribute to the elements with or height
the outline style properties specified the style of our outline.
To see these examples First we will add a paragraph element to our Web page with some example text then
we will get an opening and closing style tag to our code.
Assigning this property a value of solid gives our element a solid outline.
Let's say the outline style property to our element and give it a value of solid.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code as you can see our paragraph element now is a solid
outline around it.
Let's jump back to the editor of value of double will give our elements a double outline around it.
Let's change the outline style to double and then run our code in the browser to see the effect of this
change as you can see our element now is a double outline around it.
Let's go back to the editor of value of Dasht will make the outline dasht.
Let's give our elements an outline style of Dasht and then run our code as you can see the outline around
our element is now dashed.
Let's go back to the editor.
We can also assign the outline style property value of dotted to add a dotted outline around our element.
We will change the outline style to dot it and then run our code in the browser.
You will notice that the outline around our paragraph element is now dotted.
Let's jump back to the editor and look at another example.
There are also several three-D styles that we can add to our outline such as groove Ridge inset and
outset in order to display these effects.
We also need to give our outline a color using the outline color property lets use the outline color
property and give our outline a color blue.
We will also use the outline with property and give our outline with the 5 pixels to make the 3D effects
easier to see.
A value of group gives our element a grooved outline.
We will give our outline style a value of groove and then run our code in the web browser.
As you can see there is now a 3D groove effect on our outline.
Let's go back to the editor assigning the outline style property value of Ridge gives our element a
rigid outline.
Let's change the outline Starla ridge and then run our code in the browser.
Then we will jump back to the editor of value of inset gives our element in inset outline we will give
our outline style property of value of inset and then run our code in the browser.
As you can see the outline is now set.
Let's jump back to the editor and look at another example of value of outset gives our element in outset
outline.
Let's change the value of the outline style property to outset and then run our code in the web browser.
As you can see the outline is now outset.
Then we will go back to the editor and look at another example.
The outline with property specifies a thickness for the outline as we have seen.
Aside from a custom pixel value we can assign the outline with property of value a thin medium or thick
for the following examples we will get rid of the current style code and give our outline style a value
of solid an outline with value.
Then we'll make our outline then let's give our outline an outline with value then and then run our
code in the browser as you can see the outline around our elementis.
Then let's jump back to the editor and look at another example.
An outline with value of medium will make our outline medium thickness.
Let's give our outline an outline with value of medium and then run our code in the browser as you can
see the outline around our element is medium thickness.
Let's jump back to the editor and look at another example.
An outline with thick will make our outline thick.
Let's give our outline an outline with values and then run our code in the browser as you can see the
outline around our element is thick.
Let's jump back to the editor and look at another example.
We can use the outline offset property to add space between the edges of the element and the outline.
Let's build all of our current code and give our outline an outline offset of 7 pixels.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code as you can see there is 7 pixels of space between
our element content and the outline.
Let's jump back to the editor CSSA also gives us the outline property which is one property which we
can use to specify the outline style outline color and outline width.
Let's get rid of the other style code we have and then use the outline property to give our outline
with the 5 pixels a style of solid and a color of red.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code as you can see.
There is now a 5 pixel solid red outline around our element in the next lecture.
We will learn about the positioning properties that CSSA gives us access to.